Minutes of the 6th meeting of Ecma TC55, 01 May 2025 (#116)
wintercg/admin: meetings/2025-05-01.md

# Minutes of the 6th meeting of Ecma TC55

|                   |                              |
|:------------------|-----------------------------:|
| held in:          |        Google Meet (virtual) |
| on:               |                  01 May 2025 |
| Chairs:           |  Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)|

> | Attendees:        | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Sam Gammon (Elide Technologies, Invited Expert), Chris de Almeida (Open JSF), Lino Le Van (Chic, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Attendees:        | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Sam Gammon (Elide Technologies, Invited Expert), Chris de Almeida (Open JSF), Aki Braun (Ecma International)|
```

@lino-levan @load1n9 I don't think you joined this meeting, right?

Reviewer 2: Yep.

**Ethan Arrowood** suggested referencing [undici](https://github.com/nodejs/undici), which is an HTTP client written for Node.js that also builds on top of WPT for its testing. It has useful test fixtures and [expectations](https://github.com/nodejs/undici/blob/main/test/wpt/status/fetch.status.json) that may be adaptable for testing minimum common API compliance for Fetch.

**Andreu Botella** brings up a concern that running some of these tests may not be compatible with implementations of workers in all runtimes, and suggests a future discussion of scope regarding testing classic workers vs module workers. **Luca Casonato** agrees about potential scope creep, and suggests returning to this conversation in a future attempt to publish “levels” of compliance.

### 4.4 Fetch spec

The committee continued its line-by-line [review of the Fetch specification](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2845136268)

#### 4.4.1 fetch response handover

Runtimes will treat all requests as same-origin, generally skipping any filtering or similar behaviours. (This was discussed last meeting as well)

#### 4.4.2 scheme fetch

> * about:// schemes are handled during navigation, and should never make it to fetch. This would result in an error.
> * blob:// requests will behave as initially described in the spec, but origin checking will be skipped.
> * file:// requests will be specified after a filesystem level has been described for the minimum common API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `about:` scheme requests all fail, other than `about:blank`. **Andreu Botella** points out that some browsers use `about:` URLs for browser-internal resources, such as `about:version`, but this is handed during navigation and should never make it to the fetch algorithms.
* `blob:` requests will behave as initially described in the spec, but origin checking will be skipped.
* `file://` requests are implementation-defined in the spec. We might specify them when a filesystem level has been described for the minimum common API.
```
